# SuperPoint-Pytorch (A Pure Pytorch Implementation)
SuperPoint: Self-Supervised Interest Point Detection and Description  


# Thanks  
This work is based on:  
- Tensorflow implementation by [Rémi Pautrat and Paul-Edouard Sarlin](https://github.com/rpautrat/SuperPoint)  
- Official [SuperPointPretrainedNetwork](https://github.com/magicleap/SuperPointPretrainedNetwork).
- [pytorch-superpoint](https://github.com/eric-yyjau/pytorch-superpoint) 
- [Kornia](https://kornia.github.io/)  

# About -TODO: comment the following line if you want the same result as tf version-

Please ignore the code with such comments. When i reproducing rpautrat's code, I looked at almost looked at the output results of all their key functions and attempted to strictly reproduce them through torch. However,  the two frameworks (torch and tf) are different. For example, the matrix inversion operations, the results of torch and tf are different. You can test them yourself. If I remember correctly,   
```
homography = np.linalg.inv(homography)  
homography = torch.inverse(homography)  
``` 
These two lines is completely consistent with tf.(I don't know why,who can tell me...)  
Therefore, it is obvious that, if you do not pursue the same result as tf, but only focus on the operation of inverse, torch can meet all your needs, which satisfies the basic fact that ((A^-1)^-1)=A   
Of course, some functions, such as convolution operations, cannot guarantee complete consistency between tf and torch, which is also the difference between this project and the tf project.   


# Finished (12/09/2021)
Welcome to star this repository!
# Performance
* Detector repeatibility: **0.67**
* Homography estimation on **images with viewpoint changes** in HPatches dataset: **0.698**  
    - Corresponding result displayed in rpautrat's repository is **0.712**.   
    - Much better performance can be achieved ([0.725](https://github.com/shaofengzeng/SuperPoint-Pytorch/issues/6)) if using the magic-points generated by rpautrat's model. 
    - Possible way to improve performance is to set better values for hyper-parameters, such as `det_threshold`, `nms` and `top_k`.

# New Update (09/04/2021)
* Convert model released by rpautrat to torch format   
* Usage:
    - 1 Construct network by [superpoint_bn.py](model/superpoint_bn.py) (Refer to [train.py](./train.py) for more details)
    - 2 Set parameter eps=1e-3 for all the BatchNormalization functions in model/modules/cnn/*.py
    - 3 Set parameter momentum=0.01 (**not tested**)
    - 4 Load pretrained model [superpoint_bn.pth](./superpoint_bn.pth) and run forward propagation
 
 
# Usage
* 0 Update your repository to the latested version (if you have pulled it before)
* 1 Prepare your data. Make directories *data* and *export*. The data directory should look like,
    ```
    data
    |-- coco
    |  |-- train2017
    |  |     |-- a.jpg
    |  |     |-- ...
    |  --- test2017
    |        |-- b.jpg
    |        |-- ...
    |-- hpatches
    |   |-- i_ajustment
    |   |   |--1.ppm
    |   |   |--...
    |   |   |--H_1_2
    |   |-- ...
    ```
    Create *soft links* if you already have *coco, hpatches* data sets, commands are like,
    ```
    cd data
    ln -s dir_to_coco ./coco
    ```
* 2 Training steps are much similar to [rpautrat/Superpoint](https://github.com/rpautrat/SuperPoint). 
    **However we strongly suggest you read the scripts first before training**
    - 2.0 Modify the following code in train.py, to save your models, if necessary  
          `if (i%118300==0 and i!=0) or (i+1)==len(dataloader['train']):`  
    - 2.1 set proper values for training epoch in _*.yaml_.
    - 2.2 Train MagicPoint (>1 hours):  
          `python train.py ./config/magic_point_syn_train.yaml`   
          (Note that you have to delete the directory _./data/synthetic_shapes_ whenever you want to regenerate it)
    - 2.3 Export *coco labels data set v1* (>50 hours):   
          `python homo_export_labels.py #run with your data path`
    - 2.4 Train MagicPoint on *coco labels data set v1* (exported by step 2.2)       
          `python train.py ./config/magic_point_coco_train.yaml #run with your data path` 
    - 2.5 Export *coco labels data set v2* using the magicpoint trained by step 2.3
    - 2.6 Train SuperPoint using *coco labels data set v2* (>12 hours)    
          `python train.py ./config/superpoint_train.yaml #run with your data path`  
    - others. Validate detection repeatability or description  
        ```
        python export_detections_repeatability.py #(very fast)  
        python compute_repeatability.py  #(very fast)
        ## or
        python export_descriptors.py #(> 5.5 hours) 
        python compute_desc_eval.py #(> 1.5 hours)
        ```   
        
    **Descriptions of some important hyper-parameters in YAML files**
    ```
    model
        name: superpoint # superpoint or magicpoint
        pretrained_model: None # or path to a pretrained model to load
        using_bn: true # apply batch normalization in the model
        det_thresh: 0.001 # point confidence threshold, default, 1/65
        nms: 4 # nms window size
        topk: -1 # keep top-k points, -1, keep all
     ...
    data:
        name: coco #synthetic
        image_train_path: ['./data/mp_coco_v2/images/train2017',] #several data sets can be list here
        label_train_path: ['./data/mp_coco_v2/labels/train2017/',]
        image_test_path: './data/mp_coco_v2/images/test2017/'
        label_test_path: './data/mp_coco_v2/labels/test2017/'
        ...
        data_dir: './data/hpatches' #path to the hpatches dataset
        export_dir: './data/repeatibility/hpatches/sp' #dir where to save the output data
    solver:
        model_name: sp #Prefix of the model name you want
    ```

